# Chicken Server

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) command line interface (CLI). It includes the following files and folders:

- `src` - Code for the application's Lambda function.
- `events` - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- `__tests__` - Unit tests for the application code.
- `template.yaml` - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

## Deploy the application

To use the AWS SAM CLI, you need the following tools:

- AWS SAM CLI - [Install the AWS SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html).
- Node.js - [Install Node.js 14](https://nodejs.org/en/), including the npm package management tool.
- Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community).

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS.

## Use the AWS SAM CLI to build and test locally

Ensure dynamodb docker image is running.

```bash
docker-compose up -d
docker-compose down
```

Create the dynamodb table

```bash
aws dynamodb create-table --table-name SampleTable --attribute-definitions AttributeName=id,AttributeType=S --key-schema AttributeName=id,KeyType=HASH --billing-mode PAY_PER_REQUEST --endpoint-url http://localhost:8000
```

Build your application by using the `sam build` command.

```bash
my-application$ sam build
```

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

The AWS SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` command to run the API locally on port 3000.

```bash
my-application$ sam local start-api
my-application$ curl http://localhost:3000/
```

The AWS SAM CLI reads the application template to determine the API's routes and the functions that they invoke. The `Events` property on each function's definition includes the route and method for each path.

```yaml
Events:
  Api:
    Type: Api
    Properties:
      Path: /
      Method: GET
```

## Add a resource to your application

The application template uses AWS SAM to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources, such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources that aren't included in the [AWS SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use the standard [AWS CloudFormation resource types](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html).

Update `template.yaml` to add a dead-letter queue to your application. In the **Resources** section, add a resource named **MyQueue** with the type **AWS::SQS::Queue**. Then add a property to the **AWS::Serverless::Function** resource named **DeadLetterQueue** that targets the queue's Amazon Resource Name (ARN), and a policy that grants the function permission to access the queue.

```
Resources:
  MyQueue:
    Type: AWS::SQS::Queue
  getAllItemsFunction:
    Type: AWS::Serverless::Function
    Properties:
      Handler: src/handlers/get-all-items.getAllItemsHandler
      Runtime: nodejs14.x
      DeadLetterQueue:
        Type: SQS
        TargetArn: !GetAtt MyQueue.Arn
      Policies:
        - SQSSendMessagePolicy:
            QueueName: !GetAtt MyQueue.QueueName
```

The dead-letter queue is a location for Lambda to send events that could not be processed. It's only used if you invoke your function asynchronously, but it's useful here to show how you can modify your application's resources and function configuration.

Deploy the updated application.

```bash
my-application$ sam deploy
```

Open the [**Applications**](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home#/applications) page of the Lambda console, and choose your application. When the deployment completes, view the application resources on the **Overview** tab to see the new resource. Then, choose the function to see the updated configuration that specifies the dead-letter queue.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, the AWS SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs that are generated by your Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

**NOTE:** This command works for all Lambda functions, not just the ones you deploy using AWS SAM.

```bash
my-application$ sam logs -n putItemFunction --stack-name sam-app --tail
```

**NOTE:** This uses the logical name of the function within the stack. This is the correct name to use when searching logs inside an AWS Lambda function within a CloudFormation stack, even if the deployed function name varies due to CloudFormation's unique resource name generation.

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [AWS SAM CLI documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Unit tests

Tests are defined in the `__tests__` folder in this project. Use `npm` to install the [Jest test framework](https://jestjs.io/) and run unit tests.

```bash
my-application$ npm install
my-application$ npm run test
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name sam-app
```
